In this session, I'm discussing about the class excesses that is getter and setter methods.
This itself is a question that what is a getter or setter method?
So the accessories, also known as getter or setter methods, is an approach to create a property to
a class.
The gate and set keywords are used to create a method which acts as a property.
The getter method is executed when you read or get the value and the setter method is executed when
you assign a value to that property.
Let's have a look at the basic syntax.
First, let me create a class vehicle.
Now here I will say get, which is a keyword.
Then I'm going to use the method that is, for example, model, which will be actually a property.
Now let me just say console.log and I will display a message saying Getter executed.
Now there will always be a return statement inside the getter method.
So I'll say return.
And at the moment I don't return anything, just a string.
Now let me also have the setter method.
I'll set model.
Now there will be a parameter, so I'll say V.
And here I will try to just display setter executed message.
Now let's try to create the instance of vehicle class.
So I'll say const objects equal to new vehicle.
Now just observe this.
I'm going to assign value to the model property.
So I'll say object model is equal to SUV.
So model is treated as a property because it is placed as getter and setter method.
Now let's display the value of model.
So I'll say console.log object model.
Let's run the code.
As you can see that when I try to assign value, the setter method is executed and when I console.log,
that is, I try to read the value.
The getter method is executed.
Normally this way is very useful when you want to customize properties or implement validations.
If you keep only the getter method, it means you create a read only property.
Let's try a more practical approach.
I'm going to define a private member in the class saying underscore model.
This is generally the normal naming convention we follow when we implement the getter or setter method.
Inside the getter method.
I'm going to just say return this star underscore model.
And here in this set, for example, I want to put a validation that whenever the value is assigned,
if the length of the value is less than three, then I want to add M at the beginning.
Otherwise I want to keep the value intact.
So I'm going to say if v length is less than three, then this START model is equal to M plus v.
Else I'll keep this model is equal to we.
Let's run the code.
So now it is saying sorry.
Now let's try to remove this value as so it is less than three.
Let's see what happens.
You can see that it adds an m at the beginning.
It says movie.
So this is just a sample validation, which we have tried.
You can do a lot more with setter and getter methods.